feat: begin documentation of fiber standard (#33)
AllenNeuralDynamics/aind-file-standards: file_formats/fip.md

### File format 

> In most cases, FIP data will be saved in `CSV` files, where each file corresponds to a different channel in the photometry rig. In addition to the timeseries fluorescence data, files containing metadata and raw image data are also available. A single session of FIP data should be organized under a the fib directory. There must be sub-directories prepended with `fip_` for a session recording. There may be multiple `fip_` directories to handle cases where a FIP session crashes and needs to re-start recording. Therefore, a FIP session directory should look like this:

Reviewer: Should `fip_<blah>` just be a datetime?

Reviewer 2: @arielleleon raised the same point during the last round up.
My feeling is that, as file format to be parsed, I don't see the advantage of enforcing this. At least as something that can be referenced my users outside the Allen to save their own data. 

This metadata (along with details of the rig and acquisition) information should belong to the aind-data-schemas not the file-format and not duplicated via file name metadata, imo.

Alternatively, if you want to move in this direction I would rather just enforce this on every single folder (BIDS style) as part of the core standard. Otherwise I think we will just end up with a cacophony of non consistent file naming patterns. 

Anyway it's an easy addition for pipelines in the Allen, I would just not enforce/rely on it for processing.

Reviewer: agree - this is just for unique naming. I mostly don't want to encouraging emedding secret semantics in this folder names.

* `ReferenceTime` Time of the trigger given by hardware (Harp)
* `CameraFrameNumber` Frame counter given by the camera API
* `CameraFrameTime` Frame acquisition time given by the camera API
* `Background` CMOS dark count floor signal
* `Fiber_0` Average signal values for Fiber_0's selected ROI
* `<...>` (Variable number of columns)
* `Fiber_N` Average signal values for Fiber_N's selected ROI.

#### Raw sensor data

Raw sensor data (i.e., camera frames) that generated the fluorescence data is saved in raw binary files. These files share the same naming convention as the fluorescence data files, but with a `.bin` extension. During acquisition, operators place circular ROIs over the images, and photometry readouts are obtained by averaging the signal inside these regions.

> To open these files, users need additional information to parse the binary data. Data is stored in a `ColumnMajor` layout format, where each frame can be parsed with the information available in the corresponding `.meta` file. Each `.meta` file contains a single `JSON` object with the following fields:

Reviewer: can this just be `metadata.json`, so file type is clear?

Reviewer 2: green_meta.json?

```plaintext
📦 fib
┣📂 SoftwareEvents
┃ ┣📜RepositoryStatus.json
┃ ┗📜Region.json
┣ green.csv
┣ red.csv
┣ iso.csv
┣ green.bin
┣ red.bin
┣ iso.bin
┣ roi_green_iso.csv
┣ roi_red.csv
┣ camera_green_iso_metadata.csv
┗ camera_red_metadata.csv
```

#### Photometry CSV files

Data files are named by the color of the channel.

* `green.csv`: data for green channel
* `red.csv`: data for red channel
* `iso.csv`: data for isosbestic channel

These files contain photometry readouts. Each row describes the average signal of pixels within each ROI for a single video frame. The values are computed online during data acquisition. The files have no headers. Each column is a timeseries, ordered as follows:

* `SoftwareTS` (software timestamp, in milliseconds, total time of the day)
* `ROI0` (corresponding to fiber branch1) values
* `ROI1` (corresponding to fiber branch2) values
* `...`  (depending on how many fibers are used; in most of the experiments: ROI0-3/4branches)
* `Background`: CMOS dark count floor signal

> * `HarpTS` (Harp timestamp, in XXXunit, from Harp device reference)

Reviewer: - SoftwareTimestamp
- HarpTimestamp
- Fiber_0
- ...
- Fiber_N

There should be a header row with these strings in them. Indicate users should use these for metadata lookups.

@bruno-f-cruz I think this pattern addresses your casing concerns.

Reviewer 2: That's fine. I would just ask to consider using the same nomenclature as the behavior videos for the common fields. https://github.com/AllenNeuralDynamics/aind-file-standards/blob/main/file_formats/behavior_videos.md

At the end of the day they are doing the same thing - aligning frames to triggers - no need to come up with yet another way to call the same concept.

Author: I forgot to explicitly state that these are headers. I will look at @bruno-f-cruz documentation and explicitly state that these are the headers in the file

Author: Oh wow, just realized I left in 'these values have not headers". That was an error on my part

Reviewer 2: @arielleleon 
Since there were no headers previously. Why not just refactor to use the header names in the behavior-video standards? See my original response to David.

Author: Yes - sorry @bruno-f-cruz, I keep getting distracted but I am in the process of synchronizing the names here to your behavior - video standards

#### ROI Coordinate CSV files

The ROI CSV files contain the vector representation of the ROIs used to integrate BIN video signal. The files have no headers. 
There is one CSV file per camera, corresponding to G and Iso (time-multiplexing) and the other camera is recording only R. 
The CSV files can be used to reconstitute images like this:

* `roi_green_iso.csv`: ROI metadata for the green and isosbestic channels
* `roi_red.csv`: ROI metadata for the red channel

![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/30900798-5d51-43ba-99fc-41b07d4a75dd)

> Each row of a CSV is a point position in an ROI. The columns are, in this order:

Reviewer: Add column headers here too.

Author: I think it is fine to not guarantee order.

Reviewer 2: Can we add that to the document?

Author: Yep

```plaintext
📦 fib

> ┣📂 SoftwareEvents

Reviewer 2: After a brief friday discussion and the decision to move a `regions.json` to the root of the data, I think SoftwareEvents should remain undocumented since they will not be needed for any sort of explicit data qc. If we later decide they should, we can always add them in a backwards compatible way.

┃ ┣📜RepositoryStatus.json
┃ ┗📜Region.json
┣ green.csv
┣ red.csv
┣ iso.csv
┣ green.bin
┣ red.bin

> ┣ iso.bin

Reviewer 2: We are missing the <color>.meta files.
We can omit their documentation since the current standard already "hard-codes" how to open a flat binary file. However, if we want to be safe and be able to resize raw data in the future, it may be important to highlight how these metadata files describe how to open said data: (Width, Height, format, and number of channels)

┣ roi_green_iso.csv
┣ roi_red.csv
┣ camera_green_iso_metadata.csv
┗ camera_red_metadata.csv
```

### CSV Files

The fiber photometry rig outputs CSV files containing metadata and data. All metadata and data files must contain headers. The order of the headers will not be enforced. Documented below for each type of CSV, the file and header names are specified.

#### Photometry CSV files

Data files are named by the color of the channel and contain the photometry readouts.

* `green.csv`: data for green channel
* `red.csv`: data for red channel
* `iso.csv`: data for isosbestic channel

Each row describes the average signal of pixels within each ROI for a single video frame. The values are computed online during data acquisition. The headers include:

> * `CPUTime` (software timestamp, in milliseconds, total time of the day)

Reviewer 2: CpuTime is NOT included in these files according to the current spec (and I don't think it should). If people want to recover them I included them in the `camera_*****_metadata.csv`.

* `Fiber_0` Average signal values for Fiber_0's selected ROI.
* `...`  
* `Fiber_N` Average signal values for Fiber_N's selected ROI.
* `Background`: CMOS dark count floor signal
* `ReferenceTime` Time of the trigger given by hardware (Harp)

> * `CameraFrameNumber` Frame counter given by the camera API or manually added by user (e.g. using OS counter for webcams)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* `CameraFrameNumber` Frame counter given by the camera API.
```
No need to indicate the latter portion since this is not applicable to FIP.

> * `CameraFrameTime` rame acquisition time given by the camera API or manually added by the user (e.g. using OS scheduler for webcams)

Reviewer: typo

> * `CameraFrameTime` rame acquisition time given by the camera API or manually added by the user (e.g. using OS scheduler for webcams)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* `CameraFrameTime` frame acquisition time given by the camera API.
```

    return (accumulated_frame / num_frames).astype(dtype)
```

### Software Events

Software events contain XXX(regions are already stored in csv and are not an event. What is the RepositoryStatus?) 

### Metadata

The fiber imaging system uses a single camera to capture data from two distinct light sources through temporal multiplexing. Because of that, only two metadata files are dropped; one for each camera. The temporally multiplexed channels are indicated in the file naming format below. These files can be used to QC the cameras.

* `camera_green_iso_metadata.csv`: metadata from the camera recording from both green and iso channels
* `camera_red_metadata.csv`: metadata from the camera recording from the red channel

Within the metadata files are the following columns

> * `CameraFrameNumber` Camera frame number provided by camera hardware

Reviewer 2: Reference the documentation from the previous section to avoid duplication.

* `ReferenceTime` Camera reference time XXX more description here
* `CameraFrameTime`  XXX

> * `CpuTime`  Software timestamp from the OS, in timezone (XXX)

Reviewer: `CpuTime` here but `CPUTime` above.

Reviewer 2: CpuTime is what Id prefer. I tend to stick with the [MS](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/standard/design-guidelines/capitalization-conventions#capitalization-rules-for-identifiers) guidelines.

> The PascalCasing convention, used for all identifiers except parameter names, capitalizes the first character of each word (including acronyms over two letters in length), as shown in the following examples:

> * `CpuTime`  Software timestamp from the OS, in timezone (XXX)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* `CpuTime`  Software timestamp from the OS, in timezone-aware ISO8061 format. Users should consider these timestamps low-precision and rig-dependent, and should not rely on them for analysis.
```
